---
layout: post
title: "Time to Get Going!"
date: 2019-02-09
---

<h2>What's it all about?</h2>
I am going to try using this platform to talk about some things that I'm doing or interested in, etc. I'm interested in a LOT of stuff but I'll try to keep it coherent.

Because I'm the lab guy in EE at Stanford, I get to see lots of *EE* stuff. Since I've been in this position, I have come to understand that **we are in a "golden age" for electronics!!** This is NOT an overstatement! Just think, there are more folks using, designing, and building electronics now than AT ANY TIME in the past! And we're SURROUNDED by electronic devices!!

BUT, there has been a tendency for folks to focus on *software* with Marc Andreessen famously saying "Software is eating the world!" and now the refrain has become *"AI is eating software!"* So we have a lot of folks around that lean towards software as *THE* thing that captures their interest. **Too bad!** These folks are still in the **HARDWARE IS HARD** regime and nothing could be further from the truth! It is easier to build things now than ever before, but, as with anything, building stuff takes some practice.

That's why we started <a href="https://lab64.stanford.edu">lab64.stanford.edu</a> a few years ago. It is a makerspace at Stanford focused on the design, building, debugging, and sharing of electronic systems.

We have different programs in the lab at different times, but one thing that seems to be a constant is the influx of folks that want to learn how to build stuff (or at least get their project to work!). So to try and meet this need we have been putting together tutorials, workshops, office hours, and whatnot. It hasn't been bad, but it hasn't always been on target either.

One of the things lab64 provides is a *physical space* for folks to work on their stuff. A major componenet of this is **"the bench"**. When someone talks about their *"bench"* they are often talking about a very special place where they can focus, create, and learn. Many of "us" old-timers have a "bench" at home; and we *always* had a bench at work, since that's where we did the stuff we were paid for.

It seems that since a "bench" is such an integral part of working on electronics, maybe we should help the folks just starting out by helping them **BUILD THEIR BENCH!**

Thus, we come to the crux of this post... I am going to be working on a set of things that I'm going to call Build-a-Bench!

<h1>Build-a-Bench</h1>
Clearly, we could do lots of different things with this project, but let's get practical! There are several things that are incredibly useful for doing work with electronics :

* a BENCH

* at least one DMM

* a power supply

* a soldering iron

* an oscilloscope

* a signal generator

* a microscope

* some small hand tools

So this project will focus on finding ways to build or buy (at a student affordable price) these essentials.

OK, so if you have thoughts, questions, or comments about stuff on YOUR bench, I'm eager to hear about it! Please send photos if you can!!
